By now, you must be eager to get some hands-on experience with the Ethereum tooling,
various client types, different networks, wallet,
and how to set up a death sandbox for your projects.
So, in this section,
we'll learn how to download and setup in Ethereum Command Line Interface.
The specific client app,
we shall focus on is called go-ethereum.
So, but before we do that,
it's important to know what other client types available,
but just in case you need it for future reference.
So, as you can see,
multiple client implementations across different operating systems exist.
The list of languages is Go, Rust,
C++, Python, JavaScript, Java, Ruby, and Haskell.
So, shortly we'll work through the Go Implementation.
The go-ethereum client is also referred as Geth.
This is go-implementation to run a command line interface often ethereum node.
By running this node,
you have the option to participate in
any of the live networks including the main and the test.
Some of the functions are you can create accounts,
transfer funds between ethereum addresses,
you can create contracts,
send transactions, explore blockchain history.
Now, you can follow the instructions on this page and install
the latest version of Geth on your respective machines and operating systems of a dash,
the link to this page in the resources section for you.
For example here, we will be installing Geth using Homebrew on a Mac.
The command you want to run, it's right there.
So, you can say, brew tap ethereum/ethereum,
brew install ethereum, or if you've already installed it,
you can use brew upgrade ethereum.
So, just go to the installation steps, it'll say,
so now the installation is done,
let's run the Geth Client and sync up to one of the tests networks.
Later on, we'll cover the various ethereum networks and sync modes.
So, we'll be syncing to the Rinkeby test network.
The command you want to run is Geth.
I'll give you the command lines in a minute.
So, it's geth --rinkeby -syncmode
"fast" and I've attached the link to this page in the bottom.
So, the command like I said,
it's brew install ethereum or brew upgrade.
I've already got ethereum installed, so I won't do that.
So, the command you would run as geth --rinkeby --syncmode so within double-quotes fast.
So, when you run that,
you will have something like this running.
So, this is basically what they'll run a process.
So, once get this running on your machine or it's
syncing with the rest of the Ethereum network,
every 15 seconds or so you will see a new block being imported.
So, for every row,
you'll notice that the following fields are shown like you'll
have something call the blocks, the info,
the blocks that transactions message gas,
elapsed time, message gas,
number hash and cash.
So that's typically what I wanted to cover in this lesson.
So, having gone over some berries Client Types and witnessing how to download, install,
and run Geth on Ethereum as a command line interface,
it's your turn to just give it a go and let us know if you run into any problems,
just reach out to us in the community channel.
In the next section, I'll cover ethereum graphical user interface.